= Adyen

Package to simplify including the Adyen payments services into a Ruby on Rails application.
Currently, the package contains functions to easily generate the required hidden fields and
matchers to easily check your views using rspec.

For more information about Adyen, see http://www.adyen.com/

== Skins ==

Adyen using the notion of "skins" to determine what payment methods should be available
and what the payment environment should look like.

== Building payment forms

  <% form_tag(:url => Adyen::Form.url) do %>
    <%= Adyen::Form.hidden_fields(:merchant_account => 'myaccount')
    ...
    <%= submit_tag('pay') %> 	
  <% end %>

<tt>Adyen::Form.url</tt> will return the URL to the live environment of Adyen in production 
mode, otherwise it will return the testing environment. To override this behavior, use:

  <% form_tag(:url => Adyen::Form.url('live')) do %>
    ...
  <% end %>

<tt>Adyen::Form.hidden_fields</tt> will generate the hidden fields for the key/value pairs
you provide to the function. The keys will be camelized automatically. Some notes:

* <tt>:recurring => true</tt> will be translated to :recurringContract => 'DEFAULT'.
* <tt>:order_data</tt> will be encoded using gzip/base64.
* <tt>:merchant_sig</tt> will be computed automatically

== Testing payment forms using rspec matchers

First, make sure that the Adyen matchers are available in your view specs:

  Spec::Runner.configure do |config|
    ...
    config.include Adyen::Matchers, :type => :views
    ...
  end

To check the response in a view spec, use the <tt>have_adyen_payment_form</tt>, 
<tt>have_adyen_recurrent_payment_form</tt> and <tt>have_adyen_single_payment_form matchers</tt>.
By passing a hash, you can check the values of the hidden fields. By passing :anything
as value, the matcher will simply check if the hidden field exists and ignore its value.

Some example specs:

	before(:each) do
	  render 'payments/new.html.erb'
	end

  it "should contain an Adyen payment form" do
    # either single or recurring
    response.should have_adyen_payment_form(:currency_code => 'EUR', :payment_amount => 1000)
  end

  it "should contain an Adyen recurrent payment form" do
    response.should have_adyen_recurrent_payment_form
  end

  it "should contain an Adyen recurrent payment form" do
    response.should have_adyen_single_payment_form(:merchant_reference => :anything)
  end

== Testing payment forms using assertions

To use the assertions in unit tests, first include the matchers module in your test class:

  class PaymentControllerTest < Test::Unit
    include Adyen::Matchers
    ...

Use the assertion methods <tt>assert_adyen_payment_form</tt>, <tt>assert_adyen_single_payment_form</tt> 
and <tt>assert_adyen_recurring_payment_form</tt>. They work similarly to the RSpec matcher methods
described above. An example:

  def test_payment_form
    get new_payment_path
    assert_adyen_payment_form(@response, :currency_code => 'EUR', :payment_amount => 1000)
  end

== About

This package is written by Michel Barbosa and Willem van Bergen for Floorplanner.com,
and made public under the MIT license (see LICENSE).